
SNEeSe source
=-=-=-=-=-=-=

 Files may be added/removed/renamed with each source release, install each
  source release in its own fresh, clean directory. Not doing so may
  cause complications.

 The files that you should find in this source release are listed in
  files.lst. Descriptions may be added here eventually.

- DOS -
 If DJGPP crashes during compilation, just re-run it. If that doesn't help,
  contact the DJGPP FAQ or website (http://www.delorie.com/djgpp/).

 This requires DJGPP v2, GCC 3.4.2, NASM 0.98.34, and Allegro 4.2 to
  build.  The -mcpu option has been replaced by -mtune, which may cause
  issues with GCC 3.3.x and earlier.
 NASM should be a build made with DJGPP v2, else it may not work properly
  with DJGPP's make.  DOS is the only platform that currently supports
  FastROM emulation.
 Build with 'make', or 'make -f makefile.dos'.

- Win32 -
 This source can build under MinGW32.  GCC 3.4.2, NASM 0.98.34, and
  Allegro 4.2 are required.  MSYS (Minimal SYStem) is also required
  (for Unix-syntax compatible mkdir and rm).
 MinGW32 is not compatible with the standard Win32 object format, such
  as produced by NASM.  A fixup utility is autogenerated to convert them.
 NASM should be a build made with a Win32 compiler, else it may not work
  properly with MinGW32's make.
 Build with 'make -f makefile.win'.

- Linux -
 This source should build under Linux/x86.  Same details as building for
  DOS essentially, though some of the makefile options may need to be
  changed if you are using a GCC pre-3.2.
 Build with 'make -f makefile.unix'.

- BeOS -
 This source should build under BeOS.  Same details as building for
  DOS essentially, though some of the makefile options may need to be
  changed if you are using a GCC pre-3.2.
 Build with 'make -f makefile.beos'.


 Links to the DJGPP, NASM, and Allegro pages are available from the
  SNEeSe homepage. Allegro 4 is available from the Allegro
  homepage (http://alleg.sf.net/).

 You may need to modify portions in the base makefile.all or your
  platform-specific makefile to get this to build (you may need to
  set your paths, and program names and/or locations if they do not
  match the defaults).
 Compiling with a source dir other than "." should work now. Not
  thouroughly tested...

 The binaries built from this source require the included SNEESE.DAT
  file in the directory it is started from.

 Do not expect this to be portable to non-x86 platforms, as the core is
  written primarily in x86 assembly.

 Some commented code may be redundant in this release, and some compiled
  code may be unused, but some may be useful later on so it remains.

 Allegro saves us much work, so we use it.  Don't like it? Provide a
  better alternative!

 If you find this code useful, at least mention it!

 I will try to help people struggling to write emulators, especially for
  SNES, and will try to help out with problems with this code, though
  support for modified sources is limited, e-mail me at:
        esaelon* *at* *users.sourceforge.net

 If I ever make any SNES dox, I'll put them on the SNEeSe homepage, where
  latest public binaries and source can be found:
        http://sneese.sf.net/

 SNEeSe may also be obtained from SourceForge CVS:
        http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/sneese/

 The original SNEeSe homepage is at:
        http://olympia.fortunecity.com/baberuth/24/sneese.html

 However I do not believe it is still being maintained... has some old
  screenshots and the final binaries and source (v0.16f), from the time
  of the discontinuation.

 Send bug reports and/or fixes, ideas, constructive information - no 'when'
  is this or that going in, etc... and don't ask for ROMs! read Readme.txt
  for the disclaimer, and for more information!
